since the October the 7th Hamas attacks
the world has been focused on the
actions of the Israeli military in Gaza
the West Bank is another section of
Palestinian territory that has received
less attention it's home to 3 million
Palestinians and is partially run by the
Palestinian Authority but there has been
an Israeli military presence there for
decades that military presence has
drastically increased since the
beginning of the war and violence has
been surging the special investigation
by Isabelle Yung Josh Baker and Sarah
oat has uncovered new evidence about the
killing of two boys by the Israeli Army
here's Isabelle Yung you may find some
images in her report
distressing on the 29th of November last
year 15-year-old basil and 8-year-old
Adam were killed by Israeli forces on a
street in Janine in the West Bank our
team in collaboration with BBC verify
have been piecing together what happened
to them we've been able to collect CCTV
footage and mobile phone footage witness
testimony and information about the
movements of the military that day and
this has allowed us to create a timeline
of those
shootings in the afternoon a convoy of
at least six Israeli armored vehicles
were returning from a nearby raid we've
tracked their routs across Janine which
took them past the street where basil
and Adam
were the two boys and around seven
friends were out on the
street CCTV footage from a Shop shows
basil in the foreground here holding
something in his right hand and making a
movement with it with his left hand
towards it you can then see him shot hot
and falling
backwards more bullets hit the ground
nearby
him video from another angle shows
8-year-old Adam slightly further down
that same street from basil he's shot in
the back of his head as he's trying to
run
away he also falls this time forwards
and is then dragged behind a
car we were also able to obtain another
crucial video of this incident which is
a nearby boy who was filming on his
phone at the time he was able to capture
one of the Israeli military vehicles
driving by when this footage is slowed
down and enhanced it shows the driver's
door opening can see that right
here the driver has a direct view of
those boys they're around 24 M away from
basil and 36 M away from
Adam we know that at least 11 shots were
fired from the direction of the armored
vehicle Because We examined the bullet
strikes at the
scene we've also got a hold of copies of
basil and Adams medical reports and they
show us that two bullets struck Basil's
chest and another one hit Adam in the
back of his head now the exact rules
around when soldiers can and can't use
lethal force in the West Bank are secret
but some of the rules that apply
elsewhere are
public guidelines of the Israeli Defense
Forces state that the use of lethal
Force must be a last resort and that it
must be proportionate in relation to the
danger suggesting that basil and Adam
would have needed to pose a serious
threat to
soldiers according to all the video
evidence that we've examined 8-year-old
Adam was not armed when he was shot in
the back of his head the Israeli Army
has said that the suspects had been
attempting to hurl explosives towards
their forces which put them in immediate
danger they also shared this annotated
picture with us that they say shows an
explosive device lying on the ground
close to where basil was shot the object
looks consistent with a type of very
small pipe bomb that is used in the West
Bank but we can't fully verify the image
itself we've shown our findings to
international human rights experts Dr
lorrence Hill corthorn the co-director
of the center for international law told
us that the soldiers were in armored
vehicles even if they were a threat they
should have driven away and planned an
arrest rather than defaulting to
apparently indiscriminate lethal Force
which is a violation of international
law Ben Su the UN special rorer on human
rights and counterterrorism has told us
that while there may be questions about
the use of lethal force in Basil's case
the killing of Adam in his view appears
to be a war crime